   

# Background modelling for dark matter detection with [[DarkSide-20k]].

The objective for this project is to simulate and analyse isotope production in liquid argon volumes for a new, global dark matter search initiative: the DarkSide-20k project [1]. Rare event searches like dark matter particle detection projects all rely crucially on suppressing ubiquitous signals from well-known particles in a detector in order to stand a chance to see exotic physics signals from unknown dark matter particles. At Warwick, we recently joined the global DarkSide-20k collaboration with the responsibility to test novel, low background light sensors based on silicon wafers. These would in the future measure energy depositions in the large liquid argon volume surrounding the core region of the experiment, see Fig.1. That volume is called a veto since any energy deposition in the core, simultaneous with the veto must be background and not a dark matter particle detection. As a large sensitive volume, the veto is prone to collect rare radioactive isotopes produced by cosmic rays, isotopes which could cause spurious interactions in the core region hence the long-term behaviour needs to be understood by simulation. You will begin the project by researching dark matter physics from accessible review articles. A simulation program will be provided which can be steered and understood with minimal programming skills. The analysis will require programming skills on the level of the first year Python module but support to access and read simulation output files will be provided.

[1] [C.E. Aalseth et al, DarkSide-20k collaboration, Eur. Phys. J. Plus 133 (2018) 131](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1707.08145.pdf)